doc: Document scanner rules in Markdown (#77)
applandinc/scanner: doc/rules/secretInLog.md

---
title: Secret in log
id: secret-in-log
---

Identifies when a known or assumed secret is written to a log. Logs are often transported into other
systems that are treated with lesser security - such as backups. Therefore, secrets written into log
files are more likely to be leaked or discovered by cyber-attackers.

### Rule logic

> Operation of this rule depends on two label: `secret` and `log`. A function labeled `secret` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operation of this rule depends on two labels: `secret` and `log`. A function labeled `secret` is
```

assumed to return a secret value - this rule keeps a running tally of all the secrets created in an
AppMap. When a function labeled `log` is called, the rule looks at the log message, and checks
whether any of the known secrets are in it.

The log message is also tested against a list of known regular expressions that are likely to match
secrets.

### Notes

> Be sure and apply the `secret` label to any function in your code base that generates a secret. For
> example: encryption keys, user tokens, API keys, reset tokens, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to apply the `secret` label to any function in your code base that generates or fetches a secret (such as encryption keys, user tokens, API keys, reset tokens, etc.).
```

### Resolution

If the log message is written by code that you control, the simplest resolution is to remove the log
statement - or to remove the secret from the log message.

If the log message is not controlled by you (it's generated by a framework), your choices are more

> limited. You could open a pull request with the framework, or you can increase the log level to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
limited. You could open a pull request with the framework, or you can change the log level to
```
